Yaron's review (#129)
thomas-fossati/draft-psa-token: draft-tschofenig-rats-psa-token.md

NSPE:
: Non Secure Processing Environment, the security domain outside of the SPE,
the Application domain, typically containing the application firmware,

> operating systems, applications and general hardware.  (Equivalent to Rich Execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
real-time operating systems, applications and general hardware.  (Equivalent to Rich Execution
```

apply to the `ueid-type`:

* The length MUST be 33 bytes.

> * The first byte MUST be 0x01 (RAND) followed by 32 random bytes.  {{PSA-API}} provides implementation options for obtaining the random bytes from the underlying IAK.

Reviewer 2: Why is this new sentence useful? Seems like a distraction

Reviewer 3: I first thought that the change made sense: those are random bytes, `{{PSA-API}}` just happens to derive those bytes from the IAK.

But looking at the context it's actually the other way around, it's the IAK unique identifier so the thing that makes most sense is that it is derived from it. Those are not random bytes, it just happens that the key is generated randomly and we reuse the  `RAND` option of the `ueid` claim.

What do you think about:

```
* The first byte MUST be 0x01 (RAND) followed by a 32-bytes value of the IAK unique identifier ({{PSA-API}} provides several implementation options for deriving the unique identifier from the IAK).
```

Author: The thing here is we are using EAT's [`ueid` of type `RAND`](https://www.ietf.org/archive/id/draft-ietf-rats-eat-24.html#table-1), which requires the bytes to be _"[a] 128, 192 or 256-bit random number generated once and stored in the entity."_

Reviewer 3: The next sentence is `This may be constructed by concatenating enough identifiers to make up an equivalent number of random bits and then feeding the concatenation through a cryptographic hash function.`. So it seems already inconsistent to say that those must be random bytes (and incidentally that is what we are doing in PSA).

My guess is that the intent in comparison to the other `ueid` options is to say the bytes have no meaning (they look random) but they contain enough entropy to have some assurances of uniqueness.

Semantically though, this specification mandates that the Instance ID should be the IAK unique identifier, not a distinct unique random value. I feel the current wording makes it sound like the `{{PSA-API}}` implementation is optional and using a different random value is acceptable.

Author: > I feel the current wording makes it sound like the {{PSA-API}} implementation is optional and using a different random value is acceptable.

OK, got it.

Slightly rewording your proposal above:

_"The first byte MUST be 0x01 (RAND) followed by a 32-byte value of the IAK unique identifier.  {{PSA-API}} provides implementation options for deriving the unique identifier from the IAK."_

Reviewer 3: Your rewording is better than my proposal.

Author: > Your rewording is better than my proposal.

I have slightly reworded my rewording at https://github.com/thomas-fossati/draft-psa-token/pull/129/files#r1442286052

> * The first byte MUST be 0x01 (RAND) followed by 32 random bytes.  {{PSA-API}} provides implementation options for obtaining the random bytes from the underlying IAK.

Author: ```suggestion
* The first byte MUST be 0x01 (RAND) followed by the 32-byte unique identifier of the IAK. {{PSA-API}} provides implementation options for deriving the IAK unique identifier from the IAK itself.
```

apply to the `ueid-type`:

* The length MUST be 33 bytes.

> * The first byte MUST be 0x01 (RAND) followed by the 32-byte unique identifier of the IAK. {{PSA-API}} provides implementation options for deriving the IAK unique identifier from the IAK itself.

Reviewer: When you reference the PSA API, are you talking about these two recommendations:

* When using an asymmetric key-pair for the [Initial Attestation Key](https://arm-software.github.io/psa-api/attestation/1.0/about.html#term-initial-attestation-key) (IAK), Arm recommends the Instance ID be a hash of the corresponding public key.

* When using a symmetric key for the IAK, Arm recommends that the Instance ID is always a double hash of the key, hence InstanceID = H(H(IAK)). This eliminates risks when exposing the key to different HMAC block size. For further information, read RFC2104.
    
    
I wonder whether we should reference this draft here for the asymmetric case:
https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-cose-key-thumbprint/

#### Signer ID

> The Signer ID attribute (key=5) uniquely identifies the signing authority for the software component, which is typically a hash of the corresponding public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Signer ID attribute (key=5) uniquely identifies the signer of the software component. The identification is typically accomplished with by hashing the signer's public key.
```

## Backwards Compatibility Considerations
{: #sec-backwards-compat}

> A previous version of this specification {{PSA-OLD}}, identified by the `PSA_IOT_PROFILE_1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A previous version of this specification {{PSA-OLD}} identified by the `PSA_IOT_PROFILE_1`
```

Author: This should be right.  It's an _"inciso"_ (in Italian, an "aside" in English) and the two commas setting off the additional info are OK.

their devices to upgrade.

# Profiles
{: #sec-profiles}

This document defines a baseline with common requirements that all PSA profiles must satisfy.

> This document also defines a "TFM" profile ({{sec-tfm-profile}}) that builds on the baseline while constraining the use of COSE algorithms to improve interoperability between PSA Attesters and Verifiers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document also defines a "TFM" profile ({{sec-tfm-profile}}) that builds on the baseline while constraining the use of COSE algorithms to improve interoperability between Attesters and Verifiers.
```

> Baseline and TFM are what EAT calls a "partial" and "full" profile respectively; see {{Section 6.2 of EAT}} for further details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Baseline and TFM are what EAT calls a "partial" and "full" profile, respectively. See {{Section 6.2 of EAT}} for further details regarding profiles.
```

is a complex and expensive task that may be unaffordable to certain
manufacturers.)

If applicable, such approach provides better scalability properties
compared to using raw public keys, namely:

> * storage requirements on the verifier side are minimised - the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* storage requirements for the Verifier are minimised - the same
```

  manufacturer's trust anchor is used for any number of devices,
* the provisioning model is simpler and more robust since there is no need to

>   notify the verifier about each newly manufactured device,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  notify the Verifier about each newly manufactured device,
```

that can be used to convey PSA Endorsements, Reference Values and verification
key material to the Verifier.

# Implementation Status

[^rfc-ed-note] please remove this section before pubblication.

Implementations of this specification are provided by the Trusted
Firmware-M project {{TF-M}}, {{IAT-VERIFIER}}, the Veraison project {{Veraison}}, and the Xclaim
{{Xclaim}} library.  All four implementations are released as open-source software.

# Security and Privacy Considerations

This specification re-uses the EAT specification and therefore the CWT specification.
Hence, the security and privacy considerations of those specifications apply here as well.

Since CWTs offer different ways to protect the token, this specification
profiles those options and allows signatures using public key cryptography as
well as message authentication codes (MACs). COSE_Sign1 is used for digital
signatures and COSE_Mac0 for MACs, as defined in the COSE specification {{STD96}}.
Note, however, that the use of MAC authentication is NOT RECOMMENDED due to the associated
infrastructure costs for key management and protocol complexities.

> A PSA attester MUST NOT provide attestation evidence to an untrusted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A PSA Attester MUST NOT provide Evidence to an untrusted
```

> challenger, as it may allow attackers to interpose and trick the verifier into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
challenger, as it may allow attackers to interpose and trick the Verifier into
```

> believing the attacker is a legitimate attester.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
believing the attacker is a legitimate Attester.
```
